# Shalimar-s-Chef-Chaat-Masala-The-real-game-changer
 Chaat Masala is a mouthwatering Indian spice blend that gives dishes a dynamic twist. The chaat masala’s chatpata flavour will undoubtedly liven up your bland food. All that is required is a pinch of chaat masala, and the dish is ready to wow. Whether it’s pani puri, sev puri, pakora, or salads, chaat masala powder adds zing to every dish with just a sprinkle on top.  Let us know more about chaat masala and see what all the fuss is about.  The Origin Of Chaat Masala  The beginnings of chaat masala are believed to have originated in Mughal kitchens. Chaat masala powder is a spicy, sour, peppery and pungent Indian street food ingredient.  The chaat masala spice blend, like all other spice blends, does not have a set recipe. To make chaat masala, each family has a unique recipe.  The Uses Of Chaat Masala  ● It is a special spice blend that gives the cuisine a tangy and spicy flavour. In Indian cuisine, it is commonly used as a flavour.  ● Fruit juices with this spice blend will have a refreshing flavour.  ● Sandwiches, dosas, and frankies are among the other popular street meals where chaat masala is used.  ● All chaat dishes, including aloo chaat and bhel, are literally sprinkled with chaat masala. All chaat meals will be tangier with the addition of chaat masala powder.  ● Fruit and vegetable salads receive a tangy boost from a pinch of chaat masala powder and a few drops of lemon juice.  ● When sprinkled on hot pakoras, it provides a savoury flavour that makes them tasty.  ● When chaat masala powder is added to raita, buttermilk or lassi, it adds a salty flavour.  The Ingredients Used In Chaat Masala  Chaat masala is made up of 13 different spices in general. The following are the ingredients:  Iodized Salt Coriander Sour Mango Black Salt Kachari Mint Leaves Dry Ginger Cumin Chillies Black Pepper Cloves Nutmeg Asafoetida The Health Benefits of Chaat Masala ● When it comes to digestion, black pepper is a godsend. Black pepper and coriander have been shown to help with bloating.  ● Because of the ingredients like amchur powder, cumin seeds, and hing, chaat masala is high in iron and calcium. Cumin seeds are also high in magnesium and micronutrients.  ● Antioxidants are present in Indian spices in general, and chaat masala is no exception. Hing is high in ferulic acid, which fights cancer-causing free radicals in the body.  ● Cumin contains a chemical that has been shown to alleviate symptoms of high blood sugar levels.  ● Cumin seeds are a good source of Vitamin A, which is found in chaat masala powder. Red chilli is high in vitamins A and C, both of which are beneficial to immunity. Vitamin C is also abundant in coriander.  Conclusion:  A chaat masala packet really needs to be a part of every Indian kitchen. To make your food tasty and aromatic, use Shalimar’s Chef Chaat Masala. We use 100% pure and authentic spices at Shalimar’s. Head over to Amazon to get your packet of Shalimar’s C
